Express HTML allowed for the application to load faster on initial start-up and had the benefit of being easily scrapped for SEO. It did have the downside of us having to transmit new pages for each interaction which is where the JavaScript and SPA design came into play. With JavaScript, the client side was able to dynamically load content and allowed me to make the pages interactive. With the SPA design, the server would send a single page that is dynamically changed based on the JavaScript that is being loaded. 
The backend used NoSQL MongoDB because of its flexibility. MongoDB also stores the data in a JSON-like format allowing users to use the data easily with both application designs. 
JavaScript Object Notation or JSON is a data format while JavaScript is a programming language. JSON was used to help with data interchange from the front end and the back end. It could take data from MongoDB and allow us to interact with it and send it to the front end.  
When switching to a Single Page Application the code was refactored and a lot of changes were implemented. I was able to remove redundant code by creating single functions that would be imported when necessary. This helped decrease the amount of code that would need to be changed in the case of maintenance. This also plays into reusable UI components. By using reusable UI components, the code became easier to maintain and allowed for a more consistent UI presentation. 
Throughout the development, I had to do various types of API testing for endpoints. I learned how to implement different methods like GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. I would have an endpoint or specific URL that is used to request data from my API and through testing that with Postman I was able to verify that the endpoint worked properly, and the method retrieved data. However, with all those methods’ security is of great importance. If we allowed anyone to just retrieve any data, submit any data, and delete any data in the database it could cause a lot of issues. This is why security was implemented. The API calls wouldn’t be submitted if the user didn’t have the proper access to be using that method. This could also be expanded in the future to allow for setting certain methods to certain accounts. 
This course helped me a lot in understanding how full stack works. It allowed me to better understand the type of work that goes into full-stack development and start to work on implementing an application and learning how to use it. I feel like I learned so much in this class from debugging my application when something wouldn’t work, to doing tests on endpoints and so much more. These skills will help me show my experience in full-stack development and show my ability to learn and progress in this field in the future.
